all right welcome everybody U we're
going to do a quick prenatal class and
welcome to the people at home um we're
in Huntersville North Carolina at
Awakenings yoga studio and we'll get
started we've got mamas in second and
third trimester and Jennifer will be
showing some modifications at times for
masam that are farther along so we'll go
ahead and get started so go ahead and
just take your hands and let them face
up and if you would just take your ring
finger to thumb just find that mudra as
you relax
in as you start to allow for the breath
to
connect start to just feel this
expansive breath in all
directions letting the breath
out just noticing how that mudra allows
for this exhale that seems
fluid and
easy
continuing that breath slowly drawing it
in and slowly releasing
out finding a few more rounds to allow
for yourself to arrive this is your
opportunity to take your gaze
inward
un full inhale just for you taking in a
little bit
more letting it
out and we'll come into some alternate
nostril breathing some nauy sh Dona so
go ahead and just take your right hand
and give me your pinky and thumb and
just sort of rest the knuckles onto the
bridge of the
nose and go ahead and block the left
nostril so that right nostril is open
and take a full breath
in and a full breath
out and a full breath in through that
same
nostril and then block that side exhale
let the pinky come off release
exhale good drawing full breath
in and
out and
in switching sides
exhale continuing with your breath
inhale and exhale
fully taking breath breath
in exhaling as you switch
sides and balancing out the right and
left sides of the body continuing on
your
own the right side your masculine side
finding balance now with your nurturing
feminine side your left
side
finding two more rounds
on the sides you're
[Music]
on good and when you're done releasing
the hand back finding that mudra of ring
finger to
thumb and just breathe normally now and
take the awareness into the
spine imagine as though the breath
travels up the right
side and washes and cleans as it exits
down the left side of the
spine inhaling up the
right flushing down the left we're just
cleaning just sort of letting that
exhale flush bringing Vitality to the
shuna the spine one more time through in
your own Mind's
Eye and bringing your hands to Heart
Center lowering your chin to chest as
you make contact there with your thumbs
to your heart
space finding an intention that's right
for you it's a word or a few words
together a feeling something that's
finding you that you'd like to practice
for today find a breath of it in put it
all the way down into the belly maybe
even letting baby have part breathe in
deep good one more full inhalation
making yourself present with
us and grateful for the
moment and interlace your hands take
your palms up and find Big Stretch
inhale all the way
up and then exhale just look over to the
left inhale sitting
tall keep looking to the
left good inhale back to center with the
Gaze reach arms up and out big breath
in and then trusting the body exhale
looking over the
right inhale sit
tall
and looking behind
you good inhale come back to Center
interlacing palms and just take it
forward now find a nice concaved
spine find movement from side to side
just let the ribs have the space between
them that feels nice maybe you start to
make movements upward just really
letting anything uh that finds you that
feels like space and goodness being a
part of the practice
good and then just taking big shoulder
circles good super simple and shoulders
back go just finding some
breath and then releasing the shoulders
softening out all of the movement allow
for just right ear to find right
shoulder and breathe
deep
soften allowing that parasympathetic to
turn on breath in as we lift the
head exhale opposite
shoulder letting relax in and all of the
good hormone find the body that support
your pregnancy two more
breaths good inhaling lifting the
head and then coming into a space into
tabletops so we'll find some movement
maybe some uh support for the knees
taking a blanket under the
knees coming into
table go ahead and just find wide
fingers soft tops of the feet to the
floor and find an inhale as you take
your gaze up and lift your tail good
exhale push into the floor chin to chest
round the spine good keep moving fluid
breath inhale as you look up let your
hips come out
wide good and then as you come into cat
finding all of that good space there
waiting for you ah keep going close your
eyes
perhaps really connecting to the
breath maybe on the next two or three
close your eyes really coming into a
space that's LED Just For You by your
breath
inhales and
exhales good about two more rounds
finding anything that finds you anything
that might feel really nice for the body
for
three
2 and
one good come on back take your bolster
between your knees we sit on the long
way yeah
come back into the breath for just a
moment we're going to try this rib cage
breath so when you breathe in you're
going to kind of lift the ribs and then
release the belly and then release the
ribs and by doing this you create space
and you hold it for the breath and then
you release the organs within so we'll
kind of talk you through so bringing
again your hands to your
thighs and just softening in to feeling
supported find a full breath in let the
ribs grow and
expand soften the belly release the ribs
exhale good one more time big breath
in releasing the
belly releasing the ribs
exhale and on your
own
good and just come to know like how does
it feel to be you in this
moment what is the flavor of your
heart finding a full inhale just
remembering savoring this moment
[Music]
inhale good
opening the
eyes really cool to come to a practice
where we can come back into that pretty
quickly after a whole bunch of movement
like cat and cow so we'll move a little
bit again so go ahead and take your
bolster away come back to your
blanket and just start by finding that
neutral table again look just in front
of your mat good hands hands wide and
just extend your right heel behind
you inhale look
up exhale draw the knee in just a bit
till it comes into contact the thigh to
the belly then inhale lengthen look
back good exhale in good we're just
going super slow for
three beautiful job two
inhale and
lift and exhale soften good and just
take the weight of the hips into that
left hipbone just shift the weight there
and find an
inhale exhale hips to the
right good follow the breath
inhale and exhale back to neutral good
extending left he heel inhale look
out exhale elbow knee
in good inhale
lengthening micro bend the elbows as you
draw knee
inward good two more rounds finding
space beautiful
job
last time lengthen it all up find big
breath waiting for
you and exhale very nice we'll just send
the weight now to the right hip find a
breath and exhale
switch beautiful
inhaling and
exhaling good we'll just take a bent uh
cap so you're going to take uh the spine
rather high and then just take the heels
over to the right and then find your
gaze back towards the heels find just a
nice long side body breath
in exhale switch the feet switch the
Gaze good and it's just fluid movement
isn't it feels so good in the body
finding breath in exhale come back to
Center very nice grab your two blocks if
you
would we're going to come into a space
where we can open up the hips you take
your block away from you
oh mama don't have blocks good we got
tons you're welcome good so you're going
to take hands to blocks and go ahead and
just bring the right foot in between but
to the right side yeah of the
blocks
good good and then coming up maybe even
taking the blocks level higher if you
need to just an option right and we'll
have a little bit of movement in the hip
joints by inhaling coming forward and
exhale coming back just a little bit of
movement inhale coming
forward good exhale coming
back good
[Music]
inhale and exhale so follow your own
breath for the next few rounds allow for
the movement to be
slow for that range of motion to feel
easy good last time forward we stay here
for just a moment feel a lot of length
into that left hip flexor find two
rounds of
breath chest is lifted breath is on
beautiful
inhale exhale just pull the hips back
and allow for that leg to come
straightish right we don't want to lock
the knee heel down and just lift the
toes towards the shin inhale looking up
exhale just soften two
breaths
let that right hip drop right down
breath
in beautiful job good come back into
table so we going to bring that knee
back and come down into child's pose so
just take the knees super wide toes to
touch and just snuggle back and down
into the hips you want to bolster under
the belly we can help that out too good
just find some restoration it's
important now you know the take care
during the resting bits and to really
take sort of inventory of how it is that
the practice is going so far having that
mindful eye on the
breath knowing if you're listening As
you move if you're giving your body
enough movement the right amount or is
it too
much car
taking full breaths in and
out open mouth exhales let some of that
heat
go final breath
in and
exhale good slowly coming back up into
table we'll bring our blocks with
us take the blocks to either side left
foot will come forward in time finding a
few breaths to get
there
good
good finding the level of the blocks
that serves
you and then inhale come forward look up
good exhale back just a bit and keep
this range of motion relatively
shortened right so just a little bit of
travel just to put some sovial fluid
back into that hip sort of that
lubrication for the joint
sight moment going to feel
good for
three see if you can follow your breath
two good last time forward big
breath and stay for a moment good just
snuggle into that hip find as much space
as you
can
awesome for
three two
it'll be a full
inhale exhale hips come back keep the
heel down and just let the toes kind of
draw towards the shin there you go
inhale looking
up exhale release and just let that gaze
come inward allow for the introspection
to be of this moment breathe deep feel
the
body trust that you know exactly how to
give and how
much for
three
two inhale we'll totally come forward
release good and then come back into
table taking the blocks away
good go ahead and bring your bolster to
the front of the mat we'll come into
Sphinx on our
bellies so if you don't have a bolster
at home you can use blankets pillows
same things for the blocks you have yoga
blocks that's great but you can
certainly use other things around the
house like big pillows and cushions and
things so I'm going to show a
modification if you don't have a bolster
with using some blankets but you'll want
to come all the way forward so the pubic
bone rests just over the pillow yeah so
the belly can sort of hang and that
you're have able to have forearms there
good nice very nice that feel okay
Jennifer good good good good this starts
to feel very nice when you take forearms
down and you'll take hands wide and then
take the head up and allow for the chin
and the nose to sort of drown backward
so as they're drawing backward you feel
this openness of the chest breathe
deep good and just relax here find the
goodness that's waiting for
you
for
three
two taking it as much breath as you
can
good and come on back you'll just come
back over that
bolster moving it away we'll find puppy
yeah so puppy just before downward
facing dog how about that they grow into
one another so for puppy you want to
keep your knees right right over your
hips and extend arms long so the chin or
forehead can come to the
floor this should feel really nice in
the shoulders extending arms forward
you'll feel this openness this rounded
down this the outer arms opening up the
shoulders preparing to hold heavy things
yeah strollers I think pretty
heavy babies and chairs pretty heavy get
nice and strong
preparing for
2 full breath in all directions
inhale and exhale begin to walk the
hands back to meet the knees coming to
table beautiful job good we're going to
come into downward facing so just take
the toes under go ahead and lift the
hips take the feet kind of wide yeah
make space there for belly and then just
find a few breaths two or
three just feeling the backs of the legs
nice and
open breath
in and out beautiful
job starting to walk hands back to meet
your
feet good go slow go slow good and we'll
bend the knees and just trace the hands
up all the way to standing
beautiful just reach arms up overhead
let's find a big breath
in and hands to Heart
exhale good now y'all know my favorite
part of pring is cleaning out that bowl
so we'll take feet underneath we'll put
whatever we want into that bowl of ours
our pelvis and start to find big hip
circles now I close my eyes to do this
otherwise I'd be woring what y'all be
thinking so I take my eyes closed and I
find big circles like I'm cleaning out
whatever's in that bowl I like to have
chocolate chip cookie dough because I
know it's good and sticky it makes me
work extra hard so find breaths and move
maybe the knees Bend but just take
everything into this as exploration of
what feels tight what feels loose what's
flexible what's strong
breathe
three
and one good slowly coming up arms
inhale and hands to
heart very nice good we'll come into a
big straddle facing uh this side of the
room for our goddess sequence so we'll
take U maybe all the the toys off the
mat yeah
good we'll find legs um the width of the
mat and let your toes come over um and
out to the side so that your knees can
travel there and then arms come up into
um goddess arms and goddess is such a
strong space to be in so while you're
here close your eyes root down into the
hips and heels and start to find that
breath and connect in with that life
that new life and see if you can feel
them receiving this breath that you're
taking
in pushing into the big
toes
breath
in and exhale stand hands down by your
side
good nice and we'll just find a nice
Warrior Two with left foot in front so
you'll take hands to hips and start to
open it up I sort of walk my feet
back if you take the knee over that
third middle toe and the back foot stays
nice and planted arms just come up into
a nice capital T softening your gaze and
should shoulders just look over that
middle
finger find breath now that you're there
just enjoying it now beautiful
job finding breath full in every
direction the next exhale soften your
shoulders just a bit good reach back and
make it peaceful so we'll keep our left
knee nice and bent just Peaceful
Warrior and and modified side angle
we'll find left elbow to that top of the
thigh as right arm
reaches good and then dance it back to
Peaceful again going slow finding as
much time to get there as you
[Music]
need
exhale good let your breath move you so
you're right on time for
you
good
last time we'll meet back in peaceful
big breath
in good and then straighten that front
leg and then come back
down good just take your hands to Heart
lower your chin down for a moment find a
cleansing breath inhale
deep
exhale good and now we'll take it to
Warrior 2 facing the back of the mat so
super simple just opening up the right
leg coming deep into that front knee and
allowing the arms then to come up into
te feeling beautiful expansion through
both of your wrists reaching in opposite
directions find your
breath allowing for you to be completely
present of the caretaking the self
soothing you're able to find in the
practice or
three beautiful job job
two Peaceful Warrior
inhale right arm reaches
beautiful and modified side angle right
elbow to
knee left arm inhale find all that
goodness and then exhale back to
Peaceful good and finding those
movements on your
own giving yourself that empowerment
that freedom to trust from side to
side
beautiful giveing me chills good stuff
for
three two inhale meet back in Peaceful
Warrior straightening the front leg
finding space coming back into goddess
last time
here knees out toes out elbows down
making those strong goddess arms and
feeling
complete Perfection while you're here
like this is
exactly where this gift has led right
this gift that's been given to you as as
a baby now you're here caretaking it
give it the best possible option inhale
to stand
up and
release good let's grab a drink real
quick we doing okay making you work too
hard
so at home make sure you're drinking a
lot too lots of good water lots of good
bathroom breaks
throughout would you want okay okay on
that cool let's come on back down to the
floor and we're going to work on a
seated tree
pose from our bottom so we'll just take
the knee to the side and make it um a
bent knee on the other leg Yeah so it's
like you're seated in into tree very
nice good and then inhale Arms Reach
up and then exhale allow for the right
hand to come down and just take a nice
side body
stretch stay there for a
breath good inhale come on up exhale
left hand down right arm
reaches go try to keep that hip bone
down breath
in and out good come back up and just
start to trace the fingers down that leg
going for space in the hip not having
any sort of desire to go any lower than
is necessary to feel the awareness of
the back of the leg go ahead and flex
the
foot and
breathe just let the belly be be soft
here good
inhaling and exhaling
[Applause]
one more time
inhaling and exhaling come on up good
and we'll want to place the feet right
so we'll take the other foot out we'll
sort of help with the hands bring the
other foot in and help with the hands
good and then finding side bending so
arms up right arm down left arm will
reach to the
side and breathe
let the body show
up good other side breath
in and
out and
out good inhaling coming up with the
shoulders and just facing towards that
leg a bit as you take fingertips coming
straight forward creating a little space
for for belly breathe in and
out for
three
2 inhale coming up
seated good and just go ahead and bring
both feet
in we're going to come to a space where
feet are flat knees are bent good and
we'll take alternating um space for the
pelvis alternating sides so you'll take
one side
inhale keep your hands sort of planted
there good this will reset the pelvis in
the sacrum let the spine feel pretty
nice see if you can close your eyes if
there's anything in there that feels
sticky or like it's sort of gathered
with tension see if you can breathe to
it for
three
2 and coming back
good good coming onto your sides
goinging back into
table finding a cat and cow either side
a few of them seeing how you can come
back into breath as part of your
practice coming back into that uh
fluidity you guys are getting good at
swapping props out anyhow
huh there you go find the breath close
the eyes connect back into that
space beautiful see when you take the
belly you can let those shoulders expand
good and then when you're drawing up and
in and you push the floor away hug that
new life into to your body good inward
nice two more rounds this is something I
recommend for Mas to do at any time
they're having any sort of discomfort
just to reset the whole system
good and then finding that still
we'll take another downward facing take
the toes here lift the hips second time
being here if you want to bend one knee
at a time and really let the hips have a
breath take that
space
good
good and then walking your hands back
finding slow movement racing the hands
up the legs getting to know thyself
yeah and then to stand arms will reach
out big breath we want to move slow as
we come up so the blood pressure doesn't
make us sort of swirly girl yeah good so
we're going to take just standing tree
to the ankle here to root on um rooting
down sometimes while there's so much
change in the body um the balance
something we still need to come into to
the practice with so finding um right
foot firm to the floor and hands to
Heart Center just start to transfer the
weight just easily simply into the right
heel push down into the right big toe
and then start to make a little flag
with the left knee out to the
side and just see what it takes as far
as rooting down into the heel growing
Roots beneath
you and then maybe elevating growing
finding space Maybe tree branches
grow
maybe you find mudra
exhales and just see the body's
propensity to take on work and see if
you can alleviate with making minor
movements breathing
in good hands come to
heart and
releasing good coming back into squared
feet just take arms up overhead take
feet underneath the hips and then just
sit down into a chair just stabilizing
the sacrum and the pelvis a lot of pain
within pregnancies all the shape change
and so if we can create some stability
just with a little Squat and while we're
here we'll work pelvic floor so just a
squeeze and a release and a squeeze and
release squeeze release squeeze release
breath in and
out and inhale to
stand good and it's always fun to shake
it out like just shake the legs out
shake the arms out good we'll come into
tree on the other side like sometimes if
I take it all too seriously it starts to
feel in like no fun so I like to just
have a little fun in between when you're
ready left
foot just feel like just taking the hips
to that direction how much that changes
things and then the slight modifications
moving slowly as the body
adapts make that flag with the right
knee hands come to
heart and just find an ele elevation
from the parts of you that are light the
heart and the head and find a rooted
down this with the parts of you that
keep you rooted so the feet and the hips
and this case those roots through the
feet through the floor breathing
deep maybe growing branches extending
arms up overhead doing whatever finds
you for
2 inhaling feeling
fold and hands to heart slowly releasing
foot back to neutral good let's just
find a big breath
in and letting it
out one more
time good we'll find our blocks we'll do
one more ASA before we come into Sasa
just one block I'll
do we're gonna find Trona so we'll go
ahead and I'll move the blankets for
you'all so in trasa we're gonna step
forward with the right
foot and as you step forward go ahead
and take the block to the
hand left hand will come to
hip you'll extend forward like you're
reaching towards the mantle and then
letting the block come down place it
just inside the foot left arm travels up
as you
inhale
beautiful just see what it takes to
breathe as deeply as you
caning into my
palm for
two
good full breath we'll inhale step into
the right big toe come up to stand
beautiful job bring your blocks nice you
guys are good at this you need to bring
it switch sides we'll face this
direction good left foot's in front left
hand gets the block I like to take my
right hand to my hip and just reach
forward placing the block and it's an
inhale to come up beautiful job you guys
look lovely find that breath snuggle in
into the moment of the
shape feeling connected and strong like
your purpose is
clear this way yeah you feel
that
inhaling releasing the
fingertips good breath in
in push up come up to
stand good and then releasing the block
down back behind y'all we'll come back
down so trasa an awesome awesome space
feels pretty good awesome come back down
we'll have a
seat and just sitting presently before
we come into final resting so maybe
finding mudra
fingers just quieting the mind stilling
the body after all of that good
movement full breath
in and
out more just like that for you and
peace within the body
good finish coming into side line we'll
take a nice opening for the body so
preparing with a bolster between the
knees and pillow for the
head so we'll take s side line if you
guys want to face this
direction a good angle
right and with side lying we have the
option then of taking the left arm and
inhaling it up overhead so just inhale
the left arm straight up and then
bending the elbow just start to come
back a little bit so you can open there
just a little and see if you can
breathe find that breath
expensively
good good two more full rounds of
breath goad and just see if in the body
you have awareness of anywhere that the
body is
gripping see if you can breathe to
[Music]
there for
three
inhale and exhale we'll switch sides so
just rolling to the opposite
side
never underestimating the uh value in a
really good pillow huh really good thing
to prop
with
good there
[Music]
you finding full breaths
allowing the body to totally surrender
open breathing in and
out gifting this oxygenated apartment
for rent right baby is loving this
space for
three
2 full breath
in and coming out good so taking sasana
final resting in any shape that sounds
good to you so at home we've got a
technique called dusting off the uh day
where we take feet up the wall and so
that might be an option sideline also a
perfect option seated upright if that's
something that feels nice so we'll just
take a few moments to get ready for
sasana whatever y'all want to choose so
whatever the body's
craving I'll get ready with some
spray
good roll forward a little roll back
there you guys love Seline any blankets
to be had no not today Miss J warm
outside you put that behind you you want
more it feels good good okay so we'll
take three breaths together to take us
into this final resting this sasana this
place of complete
rest we'll inhale
completely and
[Music]
exhale good second breath in fill up
fill up fill
up letting it
out let's let this third breath a sigh
perhaps the deepest breath we've taken
in and in and
in sighing it out letting it
go to come into SAS and allow for the
mind to connect inward with this
wonderful life within the
life this awesome gift and time that you
have to be
disconnected
[Music]
you
for
[Music]
e
for
[Music]
starting allowing that breath to come in
full and
complete starting to put movement back
into your fingertips and
Toes starting to make any movement that
feels like a counter pose that feels
good and delicious for the
body taking a few rounds of breath to
come
upright taking slow movement and
honoring this
body
just coming to an upright position go
ahead and draw the shoulders and ears
together
inhale take it back and down and
snuggle one more just like that just
letting it all go breath in draws it up
together back down
good and just noticing the effects of
the practice ractice
when mindfulness draws us
Inward and puts love in all of those
gaps of thoughts whether things might
show up to
exist taking one hand to heart and one
hand to
belly and taking any final time here to
connect in knowing this connection was
forged far before the day they join us
on the
outside few breaths to connect any
messages of Love or
excitement and hands to Heart
Center drawing chin to
chest taking a moment to just be
grateful of this
time to slow it all
down and to be fully aware of the
presence of the miracle in which it all
is hands to Third
Eye a wonderful day love to you my
M satam and
Namaste
Namaste where as we stay in here